---
layout: post
title: ESLint
tag:
 - JS
---

Linter is a tool for identifying and reporting on whether the patterns or code adhere to certain style guidelines. Most of programming languages has linter, some compilers incorporate linting into the compilation process.

JavaScript, being a dynamic and loosely-typed language, is especially prone to developer error. Because of the absence of compilation process, we typically find syntax or other errors in execution process. 

There are three major Linters for Javascript code: JSLint, JSHint, and ESLint. JSLint is the earliest Linter developed by Douglas Crockford. It has been defined as the exact patterns and styles as Douglas Crockford's. 

From my point of view, JSLint prevails among other Linters. First, it checkout your syntax and style at the same time. Besides, you can customize your own rules and styles. Furthermore, JSLint is a completely pluggable tool. It is available for many IDEs. When configuring and setting up the rules, you just need to create a ".eslintrc.json" file in the root of your project directory and write down the rules you want to apply to. ESLint is written using Node.js to provide a fast runtime environment and easy installation via npm. 

In a nutshell, ESLint is a user-friendly tool. It helps you write neat and beautiful code. 

For more informaition, please refer to the links below:

 *   [ESLint official page](http://eslint.org/)
 *  [A simple tutorial](http://javascript.ruanyifeng.com/tool/lint.html)
